---
layout: post
title: Blog 8
date: '2020-10-29 15:08:00 -800'
categories: jekyll Senior-Design
published: true
---
# AWS and Storage Configurations

## Amazon S3 
Is an object storage service that offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance.

## Amazons Elastic block store
You can choose from five different volume types to balance optimal price and performance. It provides persistent block storage volumes for use with Amazon EC2 instances in the AWS Cloud. Each Amazon EBS volume is automatically replicated within its Availability Zone to protect you from component failure, offering high availability and durability.The two major volume types are SSD and HDD based volumes.

## Using Amazon Web Services Instance to setup partition and volumes with multiple storages
When creating the instance, it is preferred to use one main storage the other will be used as secondary storage, the others can be configured later.

Once you create and setup your desired instance, you need to launch it. This can be done using the SSH Client so you can begin working on it.

You will need to partition the devices using the fdisk command and create a partition within any extra storages you may have

You can also now assign each one to different groups using the volume create command and assign the groups to the blocks.

Once assigned you need to create some logical volumes that the block would be assigned to. These blocks would have a set storage size and it can be done using the logical volume create command.  (If you want to setup a RAID you can use the mdadm tools.) 

The final step in the process would be to setup the block storage devices to mount to the desired location. 
