---
layout: post
title: Blog 3
date: '2020-09-25 22:08:00 -800'
categories: jekyll Senior-Design
published: true
---
## Hyper-V!

Hypervisors also known as virtual machine monitor (VMM), a hypervisor computer software generates virtual machines. There are different hypervisors such as Microsoft (Hyper-V), VMware (ESXi), and Oracle (VirtualBox). They all contain virtual switches, which makes it able to run many virtual machines. VMWare and Microsoft provide vGPU configurations for the 3D accelerated graphics in the virtual machines. There are many comparisons between them which all of them can do most of each other functions but there is some contrast that separate each other. For an instance, ESXi is considered as a bare metal hypervisor. ESXi can also do local hardware pass through. There is also a clear difference on the time that it takes each hypervisor to run certain processes. It also different in certain accessibility such as support, image cloning, stability, mode, clustering, and certain others. Also, Hyper-V and VirtualBox are cross platforms but VirtualBox can run multiple virtual machines at the same time which makes these hypervisors have their own unique feature.

There are many advantages and disadvantages of using hypervisors. For an instance, one of the advantages is that it has the capability of making servers sturdier. In an enterprise perspective, it would greatly decrease spending’s on new hardware and multiple serves. With the use of virtualization, there is no need for purchasing new hardware and servers (it also reduces energy cost). System backup is less of an issue and recovering from system corruption has been made easier. Upgrading into virtualization would make a lot of people’s job easier specifically the Information Technology department. Although it has these great advantages there is also disadvantages of switching into virtualization. First the cost of making virtualization possible, new hardware is probably required depending on the existing network but after those requirements are met the cost would greatly decrease. Having software licensing to be considered when it comes to using it in a virtual machine and maintenance by an IT expertise due to converting to virtualization. The use of virtualization improved enterprises and businesses in a way that helped keep cost low and performance higher.

On a hypervisor, such as VMware controls its fault tolerance by getting rid of its downtime and interruption. Hypervisors make system administration easier since it is in the same host but different guest machines. They are also very convenient and available since it is virtualized the only issue that it might encounter is having the correct hardware that can handle virtualization. Although for a hypervisor using in an enterprise may be costly at the beginning, when transferring from physical hardware into virtual machines, on the long run the cost to maintain it will reduce greatly. Not only the cost will decrease but also system performance.

Virtualization improves enterprises by increasing their efficiency and lowering their cost. It makes jobs easier and allows data corruption to be less deadly as it was before virtualization could be used. Since many enterprises cost is usually going towards hardware and server purchasing. Hypervisors has decreased those numbers making the amount of hardware and server to purchase less. It less messy than individual physical hardware and it increases management towards the other servers. Virtualization on the long run is a big improvement for enterprises and businesses all around its technology usage.
