---
layout: post
title: Blog 10
date: '2020-11-13 15:08:00 -800'
categories: jekyll Senior-Design
published: true
---

# Tips to keep your computer safe and secure on the Internet

The internet is not a very safe place. At every moment, there are hackers or bots that are trying to access your computer, malware that is trying to infect and gain or take away valuable information. With the proper knowledge and tools, one can make the internet a useful tool and fun place to visit without being cornered into an unfortunate situation.

There are tips and techniques for smart and safe computing. When using these techniques you will not only protect yourself and your data from hackers and viruses, but also keep your computer running more smoothly and reliably.

One of the most important steps for any computer user is to always install updates, especially security updates, when they become available for your operating system.  These updates are many times overlooked or ignored since it can be somewhat of an interruption to what the user is currently doing but this is a big mistake. By not installing these updates you leave your computer at risk from remote users hacking into them or viruses exploiting these bugs to gain access to your computer.

Another tip is keeping your installed applications and software up to date. Common programs that are targeted due to their large install base are web browsers, Microsoft Office, Adobe Reader, Adobe Flash, all your antivirus software, and Oracle Java. In order to make your computer as secure as possible, you need to make sure these programs are updated when new security fixes are released.

This may be a common sense tip but also using best secure practices for creating passwords is super important. Not using the same password at every site or making your password easily guessable. If you use the same password at every site, and one of those sites was hacked, the hacker now has your account information everywhere that you have an account.

There are many more ways one can keep safe from the vulnerabilities of the internet world. The tips mentioned in this blog are just a few ways users can try to keep their information and PC safe. 
