---
layout: post
title: Blog 12
date: '2020-12-04 15:08:00 -800'
categories: jekyll Senior-Design
published: true
---
# Backing Up Your Files

As the world becomes more dependent on technology, we have to understand the importance of first backing up all of our information. This is so our entire digital life is accessible in case your computer was misplaced, damaged, or even lost. Technology has become a necessity to help us accomplish our everyday tasks and we need to value backing up all of that information.

Even if it may be possible to recover your computer, in some cases, some information could easily be lost forever. To make sure this does not happen, you can protect your files from accidental loss by creating a backup on an external hard or by using a cloud based storage system. That way you can rest assured that your files will be safe if anything were to happen.

There are many ways you can back up your information such as external hard drives, backing up your files manually, automatically, and by using cloud based services. With external hard drives, it’s an easy option for both the tech savvy and non tech savvy people. You would need to purchase an external hard drive with the specific amount of storage you may need for your purposes. Even though since it’s an actual piece of hardware, it will also come with the same risks as a computer, meaning it could be lost, stolen, or damaged. Thus, a lot of people are turning to cloud based services. 

Even if you were to back up your files regularly on an external hard drive, it’s still a possibility that you could lose your data. For an added security option, you can choose to back up your files on the cloud. When you store something on the cloud, your data is saved online in specific server where it is managed by certain providers. The main advantage of cloud based storage is that your files are much less vulnerable to risks like theft or possible damage. 


