---
layout: post
title: Blog 5
date: '2020-10-09 15:08:00 -800'
categories: jekyll Senior-Design
published: true
---

# Virtual Machine

## What is a Virtual Machine? (vm)
  A virtual machine is essentially a system within a system. So, the system is running as if it were a real machine and because of this, you can use virtual machines for doing tasks which you normally wouldn’t or couldn’t do on your real system, such as using a docker like we're using in class or if you want to back test other sensitive security things.
  
## Setting up the VM
   To get started, you will first need to download VirtualBox from Virtualbox.com. once there, you can go ahead and download the appropriate installation based on your OS system.
   
   Once installed, you will not be able to start up the VM as you don’t have any system installed. To do this, you will first have to insert an ISO file of an operating system such as windows 10 or Linux, use the recommended settings for that particular OS then start installation.
  
  Choosing more RAM is better, but you should normally never go over half of your own total RAM. Next page will make you select the type of hard disk and choosing create a virtual hard disk now is when you want to create a new storage and not use any preexisting one, or not using one at all. VDI is best for VirtualBox, VHD is best if you want to mount the drive into your main Windows/OS, VMDK is best if you use this virtual drive in more than one virtualization software. 
    
  You can get VirtualBox images of any windows directly from Microsoft completely free, you might have to first download the ms img tool before getting the iso directly. 
  
  Make sure to delete the downloaded iso once importing is complete initially. 
  
  Most of these images are trials, so you can either purchase the complete version or simply snapshot it at a certain time to keep using that same one every time forever.
