---
layout: post
title: Blog 1
date: '2020-09-11 16:08:00 -800'
categories: jekyll Senior-Design
published: true
---

# Virtual Private Network (VPN)

## What is a VPN Server?

A VPN server is a physical or virtual server that is configured to host and deliver VPN services to users worldwide. The server is a combination of VPN hardware and VPN software that allow VPN clients to connect to a secure private network. Unlike most servers, a VPN server usually has more logical and physical communications ports.

## Why use a Virtual Private Network?

One of the main reasons people install a VPN is because not only will it not let others track you, but also prevent them from watching what you do when surfing the net. This is especially needed in some countries like china where content has plenty of censorship issues or when browsing the net with your internet connected to a public Wi-Fi, as hackers have many methods to steal your data. You can also setup a VPN on your home Wi-Fi router to tunnel into from anywhere and access your files directly.

## Choosing a VPN 

There are many VPN's out there in the market, and the best way to figure out which is a better choice, you will need to figure out what it is exactly you want out of the VPN. You will need to learn the qualities of the top VPN's out there and narrow it down based on your prioritized criteria’s. Some VPN's store your logs, bypass blocked content, make you anonymous, give you unlimited browsing and streaming data, file-sharing, charge fee's, while others don’t.

## Free vs Paid

Free VPN's do not guarantee you actual privacy, as most collect and sell parts of your personal data to third parties. Some also have weaker encryption protocols, bandwidths caps, and very little options/features like selecting limited servers.

## Installing and Starting

Once an account is created with VPN of choice, requirements shouldn’t be an issue and installation is a simple process, as most devices and PC's are compatible these days. You just might need to go to your devices settings and install specific signatures/licenses before starting up the VPN as it may not work correctly and you will run into some issues, so make sure you follow the instructions carefully. You will also essentially be giving the VPN of choice permission to completely control what happens over the networks traffic, so again be mindful of who you go with, and how reliable they are. Trusting the VPN and starting will somehow show you that the connection has been successfully established and you may now start surfing the net privately until switched off or disconnected.  



