---
layout: post
title: Blog 6
date: '2020-10-14 15:08:00 -800'
categories: jekyll Senior-Design
published: true
---

# Lightweight Directory Access Protocol or LDAP
LDAP is an application protocol used over an IP network to manage and access the distributed directory information service.
In a directory service, the main purpose is to provide a systematic set of records, usually organized in a hierarchal structure
When beginning an LDAP session, a client needs to connect to the server known as the directory system agent. Once this is established, then client then exchanges packets of data with the server, while basic encoding rules are used to transfer information between the server and client.
## Most common operations on LDAP:
ADD - Is used to insert a new entry into the directory to server database

BIND - On connection with the ldap server, the default authentication stare of the session is anonymous

UNBIND – The inverse of BIND, it aborts any existing operations and terminates the connection, leaving no response in the end.

MODIFY – Is used by LDAP clients to make a request for making changes to the already existing database.

DELETE – This operation is used to delete an entry from the directory.

REPLACE – Overwrites an existing value with a new one.

## Using Linux there are two routes to take 
Either you could use gunzip and extract the files directly after downloading the appropriate file from open LDAP website or you could go through the yum method and automatically download and install the files.
To use yum you will first need to give the machine access to the internet and in order to do this you may need to enable the dhclient on the machine, from here you can then continue to the configuration process for ldap and the server as desired.
## Using a windows 2012 server to configure LDAP
You will need to add the LDAP roles. Go to Add roles tab on your right and select the server role, Active Directory Lightweight Directory Servers and continue the wizard step to install.
## You will need to create an AD LDS instance
Within the setup wizard, create your instances name, then the LDAP/SSL port number. In the next window within the same wizard, you will need to choose the option “yes” to create and then name the application directory partition. You can also leave it as a network service account and the default location within the computer which will remain the same. Select your group or users to the LDAP and it should finish the configuration process after applying changes to your instance and you should be able to sign-in, have the ldap running which you are also able to also monitor.
