---
layout: post
title: Blog 7
date: '2020-10-22 15:08:00 -800'
categories: jekyll Senior-Design
published: true
---
# Amazon Web Services

I have covered Cloud computing in a previous blog but just briefly it is also a way for organizations or companies to provide their services to customers without having to buy and upkeep their own servers and infrastructure. They can buy the services they need from other companies that have these infrastructures and pay for what they need as they go or upscale or downscale as they need. Cloud computing has both pros and cons that a company would need to decide on if its worth it. Amazon web services controls and host a large part of the world’s websites today.
## Simple Setup
To start a simple web server with apache running on amazon web services. You can use a Linux based OS that had apache pre-installed on it. (via the instances store) or install it on your own using the yum command in a Linux based OS. The process is essentially the same as installing it on a virtual machine if you have ever set once up but it is different in the sense that you could decide what part of the U.S you wanted the server based in and what specifications to what you want but aren’t limited to the physical machine in front of you.  All security groups and storage space are created right there and then in front of you. Deciding from 1GB to 30GB to whatever it made no difference you could choose whatever yu wanted. This is the power of cloud computing you take what you need and if your needs change then you do the changes right there and then without needing to lose capital on new upgrades or downgrades. After completing this you can add a user to this server and to test it, you can create a simple Hello world page for both the main web address and mimic it for the user as well, to do this you simply change the config file to allow the machine to do this. 
## Cloud Computing
Cloud computing is a very viable and powerful option for companies that do not have a physical infrastructure present in person for them to access. Amazon web services offers companies who can’t afford all the necessary equipment or businesses whose business model revolves around using cloud based systems the services they need to run their business. All services of a major company can be controlled from a management console and a simple normal at home desktop computer. If you run a large or small business this is a viable option, and it is easy to manage. Should you need a new machine and server up and running in a day you can set this up to your specifications extremely quick. If you would need to scale down or upscale your business with cloud computing, you can do this with almost no downtime at all.

