---
layout: post
title: Blog 2
date: '2020-09-18 22:08:00 -800'
categories: jekyll Senior-Design
published: true
---
## Cloud Computing 

# What is Cloud Computing? 
  Cloud Computing is basically a internet based utility computing that contains shared resources, information, and software that are used by end-users hosted on virtual servers. Cloud computing is where most of the data and software will reside somewhere on the internet for ease of access. 

# Benefits of Cloud Computing
  Some benefits include cost savings, as moving to the cloud will save time and money, and most clous services offer pay as you go, so you don’t need to worry about paying for additional features. It has good Security, instead of having a conventional in-house full time job to carefully monitor the security, you can instead have cloud host security specialist where they will be able to monitor from anywhere and be quick to act against any attacks. Cloud Computing also gives the mobility advantage, access the cloud through various of devices that almost every household uses and be able to use it effectively without being in an office. the cloud also has a lot of flexibility, where normally you need specific requirements for software you can now just open it via the web and use it fully functionally without getting it installed on your device. Cloud Computing gives us better insights on what’s going on with the files or information, who’s reading them from where and when. Using the cloud is best for increased collaboration, as multiple people can view, edit and modify simultaneously and be able to see what changes have been made from the past and who has done so, everything is much more organized which is good for completing projects much faster. You can also push updates much easier and effectively as well as be better prepared for disaster recovery solutions with backup in mind, there are many ways to speed up the recovery process through the cloud then doing it all in house. 

# Top Cloud Providers 
  The top cloud providers available today are corporations such as Amazon with their Web Services also known as AWS, Microsoft with Azure, Google’s Cloud Platform, IBM’s Cloud, Oracle Cloud, and the new small but fast growing Alibaba Cloud. Many other cloud infrastructures have been trying to compete, but these made it to the top due to many deciding factors such as the pricing
power, artificial intelligence capabilities, security and privacy. Cloud providers are giving us the computation and storage capabilities readily available for us as a metered service ready to be used with ease of access and thorough manuals to easily understand how to start taking action using it, “The essence of the cloud is to consolidate global information and data, and provide IT resources centrally” (IEEE,225)

# Who owns the Data on Clouds?
  Do we own the data we store in the cloud? Well, many people are inclined to believe it to be secure and safe from others ever accessing the data, as well as if you actually have the data ownership or not. For example, some clouds can have an end-user-agreement that allows the company to keep the stored data for as long as it is necessary, which might not be as long as the users or clients want it to be, even if they removed it from their end, it can still be backed up on the cloud providers backup servers. This information, whether you delete it from your end or not, can still be accessed by the government. 

