---
layout: post
title: Blog 11
date: '2020-11-20 15:08:00 -800'
categories: jekyll Senior-Design
published: true
---
# How To Choose A Router

## 1
First question you should as yourself is if you want a single or a dual band router. Single band routers are on the 2.4igahertz frequency band and are typically the least expensive models you can buy, but thy have to compete with other devices in the home that are on the same radio bands, such as microwaves, bluetooth devices, and wireless phones.
They're typically fine when you just need to surf the web and connect to social media, casual use. 
However, if one or more of your devices would want to stream online or use in online gaming, you'd want to consider a dual band router. The Dual band routers have two radios, one that connects to the 2.4ghz band and the other on a 5ghz band. The 5ghz is typically less crowded with traffic and offers more throughput with minimal signal interferences which makes it ideal for streaming and gaming devices. Dual Band routers allow you to assign a band to specific applications and clients, therby easing the load on both bands. 
## 2
You also want to make sure your router is running on the correct wireless protocol. Most of the routers use the 802.11ac which is almost combatible with any devices that you'll likely connect to your network such as smart home devices, phones, and laptops. 802.11ac also support downstream mu-mimo technology, which uses several antennas to send and receive bandwidth to multiple devices simultaneously. 
## 3
You should look for at least four gigabit ethernet ports which can allow you to connect to wired devices such as desktop pc's or even network attatched storage, additionally a router with removable antennas and a usb port would be helpful to have as well. 
## 4
If you want to manage how your network is being used, you'll want to make sure to get a router with parental controls, quality of service/options and a guest network feature. 
