---
layout: post
title: Blog 4
date: '2020-10-01 15:08:00 -800'
categories: jekyll Senior-Design
published: true
---

# Comparing IPv4 vs IPv6!

## What is Internet Protocol? 
  Before we begin comparing the two, we first need to know what exactly an Internet Protocol or IP for short is. IP refers to a technical format of packets and addresses the communication of computers over a network. Many networks use a higher level protocol called transmission control protocol or TCP which pretty much establishes the virtual connection between destination and sources. 

## The two types of IP (Internet Protocol)
  There are currently two different types of Internet Protocols, IPv4 and IPv6. IPv6 is the new and improved upgrade from the old version four protocol. IPv4 is the fourth revision of the internet protocols used to identify devices on a network through an addressing system. The internet protocols are used to connect the respective devices to the internet. It uses a 32 bit address scheme allowing for a total of 2^32 addresses which is roughly only about 4.30 billion addresses in total. With the advancements and growth of technological devices, for example an Xbox, Ps4, desktop, laptop, and smartphones each use their own unique addresses from the pool of available ipv4 addresses. Sooner or later these 4.30B of addresses are bound to run out. 

  IPv6 on the other hand is the improved and successor if you will of the internet protocol version 4, as it is designed to upgrade the protocol and will coexist with the older version even. It’s designed to allow the internet to develop progressively in terms of number of hosts and connected and the total amounts of data traffic transmitted. The IPv6 uses a 128 bit unlike the older 32 bit, which in turn means 2^128 of addresses, a very big amount! We have more than enough addresses now to keep the internet operational for a really long time. 

  While the excessive amount of addresses has been the main factor in improvements in IPv6, there are other developments and changes as well. One of them being, that the Network Address Translation or NAT for short is no longer required. We have a much simpler header format available to use, more efficient ways of routing, built in authentication and privacy is now available, easier use of the administration compared to DHCP, and many other additional supports for use. 
  
  Bottom line in comparing the IPv4 and IPv6 is that the IPv6, using the 128 bit of IP addresses is such a large number now that we need to use hexadecimal separated by colons to even read the exact number of addresses. Every household should be now using the new and improved version 6 of the Internet Protocol. 
  
