---
layout: post
title: Blog 9
date: '2020-11-06 15:08:00 -800'
categories: jekyll Senior-Design
published: true
---
# Creating Strong Passwords

People often overlook how important it is to create strong passwords. In this day in age there are several people and companies that are illegally purposely trying to hack accounts by guessing passwords. A strong password is one of the best ways to defend your accounts and private information from hackers.

Everything on the web that stores any of your private information requires passwords. From checking your email to online banking, a strong password is required. The goal is, in order to protect yourself and your information, you'll want to use passwords that are long, strong, and difficult for someone else to guess while still keeping them somewhat easy for you to remember.

Since the goal is to create a strong password that is easy for you to remember but impossible for others to guess, you have to make sure you don’t use information that others can search up about you. Some tips are, never using personal information such as your birthday, your name, or email. When using a longer password, it adds a bit more security, therefore, passwords should usually be six characters long. Another super important tip is to never use the same password for your accounts. This is because if one of your accounts is hacked, they all become vulnerable. A key tip is to use numbers, symbols, uppercase and lowercases letters. The best passwords are the random ones. Ones that don’t include dictionary words are great so they can literally be impossible to guess. 

